### <i class="fa-regular fa-circle-dot"></i> **Keirsey Temperament Sorter - II (Personality Instrument)**

<a href="/static/pdf/Temperament.pdf" class="!no-underline !bg-gray-100 hover:!bg-gray-200 !text-gray-500 !font-semibold !py-3 !px-6 !rounded">
More</a>

**Rationals (NT)**: are the problem solving temperament, particularly if the problem has to do with the many complex systems that make up the world around us. Rationals might tackle problems in organic systems such as plants and animals, or in mechanical systems such as railroads and computers, or in social systems such as families and companies and governments. But whatever systems fire their curiosity, Rationals will analyze them to understand how they work, so they can figure out how to make them work better.
In working with problems, Rationals try to find solutions that have application in the real world, but they are even more interested in the abstract concepts involved, the fundamental principles or natural laws that underlie the particular case. And they are completely pragmatic about their ways and means of achieving their ends. Rationals don't care about being politically correct. They are interested in the most efficient solutions possible, and will listen to anyone who has something useful to teach them, while disregarding any authority or customary procedure that wastes time and resources.
Rationals have an insatiable hunger to accomplish their goals and will work tirelessly on any project they have set their mind to. They are rigorously logical and fiercely independent in their thinking ­­ are indeed skeptical of all ideas, even their own ­­ and they believe they can overcome any obstacle with their will power. Often they are seen as cold and distant, but this is really the absorbed concentration they give to whatever problem they're working on.
Whether designing a skyscraper or an experiment, developing a theory or a prototype technology, building an aircraft, a corporation, or a strategic alliance, Rationals value intelligence, in themselves and others, and they pride themselves on the ingenuity they bring to their problem solving.
Rationals are very scarce, comprising as little as 7 to 10 percent of the population. But because of their drive to unlock the secrets of nature, and to develop new technologies, they have done much to shape our world.

**Masterminds (INTJ)**: are head and shoulders above the rest when it comes to complex operations planning. As a Mastermind, you seem to have an innate ability to grasp a project's necessary progression and understand how each step leads to the next. You can also be first­ rate when it comes to anticipating potential difficulties and preparing alternatives. By trying to imagine every contingency, you'll almost never set off on a project without more than one plan in mind. If Plan A fails, you'll move directly along to Plan B.

---

### <i class="fa-regular fa-circle-dot"></i> **16 Personalities Test**

<a href="https://www.16personalities.com/profiles/fafdc4b28f928" class="!no-underline !bg-gray-100 hover:!bg-gray-200 !text-gray-500 !font-semibold !py-3 !px-6 !rounded">
More</a>

### **Strengths**:

**Quick, Imaginative, and Strategic Mind**: Architects pride themselves on their minds, and they take every chance they can to improve their knowledge. This shows in the strength and flexibility of their strategic thinking. Highly curious and always up for an intellectual challenge, Architects see things from many different angles. Architect personalities use their creativity to plan for unforeseen possibilities.

**High Self-Confidence**: Architects trust their rationalism above all else, so when they decide something, they have no reason to doubt their decisions or insights. This creates an honest, direct style of communication that isn’t held back by what others expect of them. When Architects are right, they’re right, and nothing will change that fact. Whether it’s a person, a process, or themselves whose course needs to be corrected, they’ll hold their ground and have it no other way.

**Independent and Decisive**: This creativity, logic, and confidence form individuals who stand on their own and take responsibility for their actions. Authority figures don’t impress Architects, and neither do social conventions. And no matter how popular something is, if they have a better idea, Architects stand against anyone they must to promote their plan. Either an idea is rational, or it’s wrong - and they’re happy to apply that standard to themselves.

**Hard-Working and Determined**: If something grabs their interest, Architect personalities can be very dedicated to their work. They often put in long hours and intense effort. Architects are goal-oriented, and if tasks lead to something clear and relevant, they strive to accomplish those tasks.

**Open-Minded**: Architects are open to new ideas as long as they’re argued well. People with this personality type are even (maybe especially) open to ideas that go against their own if the thinking is sound. They often apply their openness and independence when thinking about matters like alternative lifestyles. Mix this with their dislike for rules and traditions, and it’s easy to see how Architects might lean toward more tolerant social views.

**Jacks-of-all-Trades**: Because of Architects' open-mindedness, willpower, independence, confidence, and planning abilities, they are capable of doing anything they set their minds to. Skilled at hacking anything life throws their way, Architects are able to break down and learn from almost any system. They then use the ideas found there wherever they’re needed. Architects tend to have their pick of jobs, from IT system designers to political organizers.

### **Weaknesses**:

**Arrogant**: Architect personalities can carry their confidence too far. They may falsely believe that they’ve fixed all the issues of a matter, then call it a day, rejecting the opposing opinions of those they believe to be intellectually inferior. With their disrespect for social standards, Architects can be insensitive when offering their opinions if they aren’t mindful of their attitude and less-developed social skills.

**Judgmental**: Architects have complete confidence in their thought processes because rational arguments are almost by definition correct – at least in theory. In practice, emotional considerations and history are hugely influential. A weak point for people with the Architect personality type is that they brand these factors and those who embrace them as illogical. They often dismiss them as people who think in an inferior way. This can make it all but impossible for others to be heard.

**Overly Analytical**: A repeated theme when discussing the strengths of Architects is their analytical skills. But this strength can fail them when logic isn’t the most important factor. Relationships, in all their complexities, often resist neat explanations. Architects may be highly critical and sometimes reach a high level of picky thoroughness when dealing with others. At that point, many people – with the exception of extremely loyal and understanding friends – are likely to flee, sometimes not to be seen again.

**Loathe Highly Structured Environments**: Architects hate blindly following...anything...without understanding why. They have a greater dislike for authority figures who go around forcing others to obey laws and rules without understanding the purpose of the standards themselves. Architects are likely not to get along with anyone who prefers how things “have always been.” However, by not going along with the standards – even when doing so might not be a big deal – Architects can make their lives harder than they need to be.

**Clueless in Romance**: This resentment toward rules and their tendency to overanalyze and judge, even to the point of arrogance, adds up to a personality type often clueless in dating. Having a new relationship last long enough for Architects to understand what is going on and how to behave is difficult. Trying harder in the ways that Architects are used to can only make things worse, and, unfortunately, it’s common for them to simply give up the search for love. Ironically, this more-relaxed state is when they’re at their best, and only then are they most likely to attract that special someone without effort.

---

### <i class="fa-regular fa-circle-dot"></i> **StrengthsFinder 2.0 Report**

<a href="/static/pdf/StrengthFinder.pdf" class="!no-underline !bg-gray-100 hover:!bg-gray-200 !text-gray-500 !font-semibold !py-3 !px-6 !rounded">
More</a>

**Input**: Instinctively, you are willing to spend time sharing your ideas with intelligent individuals. Of course, you want them to tell you their latest thinking. Conversations that involve a lot of questions and answers stimulate your mind. You know you have spent your time wisely when you have a number of new ideas, theories, or concepts to somehow file away or remember for future use. By nature, you can finagle — that is, obtain by indirect or involved means — time with people who think about the coming years and decades. Routinely, you read their writings or listen to their conversations. You probably ask them questions and consider their responses. You file away lots of ideas and facts, sensing that one day this information will prove to be useful. Whether it ever actually does become useful makes no difference to you. Collecting the predictions of forward-looking thinkers is apt to be rewarding in and of itself. Driven by your talents, you can feel constrained — that is, limited — by rigid and strict due dates.
Why? You require sufficient time to gather all the facts, data, or information needed. While others celebrate finishing something on schedule, you are apt to question whether the discussion of important ideas, theories, or concepts was too rushed. Chances are good that you are comfortable saying, “I am a fine educator.” You probably converse with others in your field about ideas, theories, or concepts to gather the latest thinking. Using these insights, you are apt to draw your students into discussions that entice them to explore topics. You want them to really understand the subject rather than memorize a few facts just to pass a test. It’s very likely that you may gain the advantage by using difficult-to-understand words in your speech or writing. To some extent, this forces certain people to ask questions. When they must depend on you for answers, perhaps you become an authority figure. Possibly much preparation goes into your examination of the subject prior to these interactions. Because you realize knowledge is power, you might be inclined to delve into specific topics for the sole purpose of making discoveries or acquiring new information.

**Intellection**: Because of your strengths, you derive much pleasure from pondering things deeply. After much forethought, you customarily reach conclusions, offer new ideas, suggest different ways of looking at situations, or ask probing questions. It’s very likely that you are determined to push for changes that will benefit humankind or Earth itself. Your desire to have an impact motivates you to enter into conversations with intelligent people. Drawing on their wealth of knowledge and ideas as well as sharing your treasure trove of wisdom is exciting. These discussions frequently cause you to think in new ways and to reexamine your purpose in life. Driven by your talents, you tend to express your doubts about various ideas, theories, or concepts. Using your brainpower, you put aside your emotions while calmly absorbing as much information as you can. Even though you may have never experienced a particular situation, event, opportunity, or dilemma, you exhibit the mental capacity to project yourself into it. Lively conversations with intelligent individuals stimulate your thinking about abstract or complex topics. Chances are good that you may feel better about yourself and life in general when you have time to carefully examine ideas, scrutinize documents, or inspect numerical data. Perhaps certain people describe you as studious or scholarly. By nature, you might delve into subject matter that intrigues you. Perhaps you read, write, listen to lectures, experiment, or research selected topics to broaden your understanding of them. Sometimes you think of questions no one else has ever asked. Sometimes you find your own answers.

**Competition**: By nature, you generally put forth extra effort to be the best or to finish first. You certainly concentrate on using your skills, knowledge, talents, and physical traits. You also rely on people with special expertise. Their suggestions probably give you a distinct advantage over your opponents. Chances are good that you approach most win-lose situations in a practical and realistic manner. When you are intent on being victorious, you automatically extinguish any sentimental feelings you have toward your rivals. It’s very likely that you yearn to get ahead. You strive to acquire many of the status symbols and special privileges that come with rank, title, or position. Instinctively, you are eager to broaden your knowledge and expand your skills when comparisons are made between you and your opponents. Sometimes your rivalries are public. Sometimes they are known only to you. Either way, you are determined to be victorious by capturing the top prize, finishing in first place, or being declared the very best. Because of your strengths, you consistently aim to turn in the prize-winning performance. A second- or third-place finish can send you into an emotional tailspin. Your ability to pull out of it depends on your other talents.

**Ideation**: Driven by your talents, you may dream up new tasks to do. Perhaps you realize the inventive process cannot be rushed. Sometimes you are frustrated by individuals who appreciate your originality but fail to give you enough time to generate novel ideas. By nature, you may feel more favorable about life when you can freely use your sophisticated vocabulary. Perhaps your enjoyment of language is multiplied when your choice of words stimulates the thinking of others. Chances are good that you favor conversations where information, facts, or data are considered objectively — that is, emotions do not distort the truth. You pose questions, evaluate answers, and figure out how things work.
Reducing an idea, theory, or process to its most basic parts provides you with many insights. You are likely to archive — that is, preserve — your discoveries so you can use them later. Because of your strengths, you may consider yourself an idea person. Perhaps your job, studies, or life in general feels a bit more exciting when people ask you to think up novel assignments, activities, or campaigns. It’s very likely that you now and then take advantage of opportunities that allow you to generate original ideas.

**Belief**: Because of your strengths, you want your life to really matter. You are determined to contribute to the well-being of individuals and the human family. You sense you can be an influence for good in the world. It’s very likely that you definitely want to benefit humankind and the environment. You seek to bring about major and minor changes that are needed. You identify what you can do as a person to make life better for others. Your values are expressed through your words and deeds. Your sense of mission — whatever it happens to be — fills your life with meaning and purpose. Instinctively, you occasionally inconvenience yourself to help someone else. Maybe the person’s appreciation, smile, or words of thanks make you feel good about yourself and life in general. Perhaps you have a bit more energy for your own job or studies after you have done a good deed. By nature, you strive to find meaning in your existence. Adding value to the lives of other people enriches your own. Chances are good that you occasionally sense you are part of something bigger or more important than yourself. Maybe this conviction influences choices you make in life.
